This wiki contains a number of "Special" pages. These pages cannot be removed or renamed. Some can be edited, like the "About" page; others are generated by the wiki as it runs, like the "All Pages" page.

Here is a complete list.

#### Front Page ####

The Front Page is the first page the wiki displays when it starts up. It is also the page that is displayed if the wiki ever gets into a state where it cannot figure out what should be displayed. You can edit it's contents, but you cannot change the name.

#### About ####

The About page can be used to record some information about the wiki in general. You should edit it to reflect your intentions for the wiki.

#### Table of Contents ####

This is a special area off to the left of the main display area. The program will automatically generate some of this area. There are special page link formats that you can use to add pages to this area.

#### Preferences ####

You can use this page to change some of the settings that control how the program operates. Be very careful in editing this page. If the program cannot understand the content of the edited page, it will reset everything to the defaults that were used when the program first started.

#### All Pages ####

This page is generated by the program every time you load it. As it's name suggests, it will create a page that lists the titles of all of the pages in the wiki database.

#### Orphans ####

This is another page that is generated by the program. When invoked, it will search the database for pages that don't appear to be referenced from anywhere else in the wiki. There is nothing wrong with creating such pages, you just have to remember the name in order to find it again. Or examine the contents of the Orphans page.

There are some orphan pages intentionally placed in the wiki when it is first used. These are just for testing purposes. If you don't want them taking up space, just delete them.
